Docker setup (#1241)
ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT: doc/development/02devcontainer.md

# Devcontainer

> We are also supporting a containerized setup(docker/podman). For more information checkout the README inside [.devcontainer](https://github.com/ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT/blob/master/.devcontainer/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are also supporting a containerized setup(docker/podman). For more information checkout the README inside [.devcontainer](https://blob.permaplant.net/master/.devcontainer/README.md).
```

Reviewer 2: Generally you can but it in many cases (e.g. links to outside of doc/) it won't work on doc.permaplant.net etc.

## Background

> (Devcontainer)[https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers] allows you to

Reviewer 2: Markdown is the other way round. Please try to write one sentence per line and keep sentences shorter.

develop using VSCode, without installing Node and Rust, you only need Docker and the
Dockercontainer extention.

## Install the extention

[Devcontainer](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) extention and choose
`Dev Containers: Reopen in Container` in the VSCode command palette. The devcontainer includes a `PgAdmin` container on port `5050`,
see the `.devcontainer` directory.

Within the devcontainer install all dependencies with

```bash
make install
```

## Git user

> Globally set git credentials are not available in the devcontainer, set them loaclly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Globally set git credentials are not available in the devcontainer, set them locally.
```
